One of the first factors we were interested in exploring was if the political affiliation of each state impacted their decision to enact social mobility restrictions. Of course, other factors could go into a state’s decision to restrict its citizen’s movements such as the number of cases, projected case growth, and population density, but we wanted to see if there were any political motivations behind this momentous decision for each state. In order to accomplish this, we imported data that could classify each state as either Republican or Democratic based on how they represent themselves including the political party of their Governor. For the dates, we used the variable called “any gathering restriction.” We decided to use this date instead of the stay at home order date because not all states enacted stay at home orders as well as the any gathering date was the first time that each state reacted to the COVID-19 outbreak. These restrictions may include no public gatherings of 10 or more people or something similar. One final note is that North Dakota was not included in our analysis because it never imposed a restriction according to our dataset as of May 10, 2020. The following graph shows the results.
 
What is immediately evident is that Democratic and Democratic Leaning states started their restrictions earlier than Republican and Republican Leaning states. In order to prove this, we ran a nonparametric t-test on the data. We went with a nonparametric test because our data didn’t seem to fit a normal distribution as seen in the frequency histogram. Our sample size of the fifty states is also relatively small. 
 
Even with this more restricted test, we found statistical significance as our p-value was 0.01079. This means that the two populations are not equal in how they enacted mobility restrictions, though we cannot conclude if other confounding variables played a role.
 	Additionally, we were interested in determining if R0 values were impacted by stay at home measures and whether or not political preferences played a role in this. However, we encountered one problem with the dataset: it did not include R0 data for the early parts of March and some states began restricting social mobility in March. So for states that stopped mobility before March 24, we used this date instead since it was the earliest one available in our dataset. For states that started their stay at home measures after March 24, we used whatever date they began on. These dates were used as a baseline R0 value, and we then compared their R0 values two and four weeks after said date. We chose two and four weeks because we wanted to capture the effects of the possible policies, and needed to introduce this lag period in order to account for the lag in reporting as well as the incubation period for the disease. The following graphs show the results with the change in R0 on the x-axis and the adjusted start date on the y-axis. 
 
 
We can see that R0 has been decreasing over time for every state, and the effects of four weeks are larger than the effects of two weeks under mobility restrictions. Moreover, the graphs do not seem to indicate that political affiliation had a significance between the difference in R0 values from the initial date to either two or four weeks later. We again used two-sample t-tests to pit blue states against red states. For both two weeks and four weeks, we found no significance as our reported p-values are 0.2673 and 0.285 respectively. Again, this could be due to the fact that each state has its own unique properties such as urban versus rural population, total population, initial case counts, testing limitations, or as a whole, the United States was lowering its overall R0 score.
